## Details

In the spring of 2018, I took a [Bayesian Data Analysis course STAT 6570](https://stat.osu.edu/courses/stat/6570) with [Dr. Oksana Chkrebtii](https://www.asc.ohio-state.edu/chkrebtii.1/research.html) in the Statistics department at Ohio State University. 

In the final project, students were given a dataset used in Dorner et al (2009) detailing the spawning behavior of North American pacific salmon. Students entered the project with no domain knowledge. Students were provided with several resources (videos and papers) for learning about salmon spawning behavior.

**In 7 days**, using the data provided, students had to answer a research question of one's own choice about the life cycle survival behavior of North American Pacific Salmon. The only constraint in analysis was to use a Bayesian Method. 

This project tested my ability to quickly learn about an application area, come up with an interesting question in that area, and answer that question using bayesian statistical methods.

## Data, Code, and Final Report

You can find the data, code, and final report in [this github repository](https://github.com/jacobs269/PacificSalmonSurvival). If you quickly want to see what I did, [the final report is here]("/assets/Jacobs-Peter-STAT6570-final-project.pdf")

## Citations and Credits

* Brigitte Dorner, Randall M. Peterman, and Zhenming Su.  Evaluation of performance of alternative management models of pacific salmon (oncorhynchus spp.) in the presence of climatic change and outcome uncertainty using monte carlo simulations.*Canadian Journal of Fisheries and Aquatic Sciences, 66(12):2199–2221, 2009*.

* Thank you to Dr. Chkrebtii for giving permission to show this work to others