# Project Description

## Details

This was a long term project in the [Data Mining Laboratory](http://web.cse.ohio-state.edu/dmrl/) in the Computer Science Department at Ohio State University. I worked with [Jiongqian Liang](http://jiongqianliang.com) and [Srinivasan Parthasarathy](http://web.cse.ohio-state.edu/~parthasarathy.2/)

- The goal of the project: To develop an algorithm for classifying the pixels in satellite images of geographic areas as water or land. Images in this project were on the scale of millions of pixels.

- Why is this useful?: Using images of an area before and after it has been impacted by a natural disaster, the classification algorithm can be used to produce a map indicating which localities have been flooded, and which have not. This map can be useful in preparation for future floods.

## My Contributions

- Primary developer of the web application which takes a satellite image of a geographic area and produces a flood map. The application queries a user for class labels for a couple of the pixels. It then runs the custom designed flood mapping algorithm, and produces a classification for each pixel in the image as water or land.

- Extended the web application for use in a crowdsourcing environment. Specifically, instead of querying just one user, the application is setup to query many users for label information. This information is then used in an aggregation framework to produce a slightly more robust classifier. See section 4 of the paper, where I discuss this in detail.

- The data collected by the application in a small crowdsourcing experiment, along with a detailed description that I put together for the database schema, and some sample database queries, is available in [this github repository](https://github.com/jacobs269/CHUG-FM-Data). Make sure to look at the README.

## Some important things I learned from this project

- How to use Numpy for processing very large image data sets
- How to make a web application using Django in Python
- Experience in presenting research to others in poster sessions
- Experience writing parts of an academic paper



